[Music]
it may seem that you know everything
about your smartphone all it snacks
glitches and icons but occasionally
especially if you're an Android owner or
if you have just had a software update
or installed a new unfamiliar app your
cell phone might surprise you you unlock
it and tada
there is an eye staring at you from the
top of the screen has CBS taken over
your phone well here's how to decode
those icons on your screen if your phone
shows you two horizontal arrows one over
the other and pointing in opposite
directions it means that your network is
testing or has already launched voice
over LTE service in short before you
used a 4G signal only for browsing the
Internet but once the arrow sign appears
on your screen
it means you can use a 4G signal to make
phone calls good news because it results
in cause of higher quality and better
coverage especially if you're outdoors
now show me a person who doesn't know
the meaning of a small radar sign at the
top of the screen yep that's the famous
Wi-Fi symbol loved by many it appears
when you're connected to Wi-Fi networks
at home in a coffee shop or at an
airport
but what if a symbol has the same shape
as the Wi-Fi icon but is black and has
an exclamation mark on it it means
you've gone to the Wi-Fi dark side and
there's Darth flip phone now it only
means that the Wi-Fi connection has been
lost but your phone's working hard
trying to solve the problem to do so
your gadget uses the smart network
switching option it automatically
switches your phone back to your mobile
network if Wi-Fi stops working or if
it's signal becomes too weak now on most
phones you'll sooner or later spot two
vertical arrows facing opposite
directions under or next to the Wi-Fi
symbol it means that your phone is using
a Wi-Fi network at the moment if the
arrows flash the connection is working
correctly one day you may see the
capital R appear next to your phone
signal bars it means that your device
has managed
to a different network not its regular
one it mostly happens when you go abroad
without the roaming mode you can't use
the internet or make calls on your phone
that's why if you want to use your
device to the fullest when you're out of
the country remember to turn on the
roaming feature in your phone settings
at the same time keep in mind that
surfing the internet or calling while
abroad can cost you a fortune your
Android phone of an older model may also
start to show you a little triangle next
to the signal bars this geometric figure
has the same function as the letter R it
informs you that your phone is in the
roaming mode a star symbol means that
you've enabled do not disturb mode on
your phone instead of a star there might
be a no entry sign on your gadget in any
case when this mode is on you won't get
messages calls or other notifications
unless you've added the sender in a
special priority list in advance
a tiny telephone with a keyboard next to
it means that you have activated TTY
which stands for teletypewriter
thanks to this feature instead of
talking you can type your messages which
makes communication easier for people
who have issues with speaking or hearing
however you can only use teletypewriter
if your network provider supports this
feature also if you see an icon with an
ear that seems to be crossed and a tiny
capital letter T next to it you've
switched on the hearing aid mode this
feature was designed for people wearing
a hearing aid and when you have this
symbol on the screen it means that your
phone is ready to transmit audio
directly to the hearing aid
thanks to this option hearing aid users
can hear everything much more clearly
than they would otherwise when you see a
symbol that resembles a curvy capital
letter n on the screen your NFC which
stands for near field communication is
switched on with this option your gadget
can interact with another device that's
not further than a few inches away this
way you can transfer small amounts of
data or even photos by keeping two
phones together
an upside-down teardrop at the top of
your phone screen not only indicates
that your GPS is turned on but also
informs you that one of your
applications is using your current
location at the moment but in fact you
usually need this only when you use your
phone for navigation in any other case
you better switch this feature off
because otherwise it'll drain your
gadgets battery with lightning speed
another icon for the turned on GPS looks
like a satellite with two lines coming
off it if you're an Android owner and
have noticed a plus inside a circle
which actually looks like a 75% of a
circle you have the data saver mode on
this function helps you reduce the
amount of data you use by optimizing the
pages you visit and the apps you use you
can turn this mode on and off whenever
you need it in your data usage settings
plus you can tune particular apps for no
data or low data access another sign an
Android device owner may see at the top
of the screen is a rectangle with three
curved lines this is your cast screen
icon it means that your phone is
connected to your TV or in some cases
another device beaming photos and videos
from your gadget to a bigger screen if
you want to disable this mode go to
settings and switch off screen casting
if you're the owner of a Samsung device
one day you might notice an eye which
might be surrounded by eyelashes or not
staring back at you from the top of the
screen it means that the smart stay
feature is enabled on your fall when
this function is turned on the screen of
your gadget won't switch off until you
look away from it smart stay uses a
sensor on the front side of your cell
phone as soon as this sensor detects
your face it keeps checking whether your
eyes are still on the page if not the
screen will darken to save battery to
switch this function on go to the
settings menu and choose display scroll
through your options and choose smart
stay congrats from now on you can easily
switch the flashing eye icon on and off
but if this feature doesn't seem
particularly entertain
to you you can easily disable it the
same way if you see a Wi-Fi symbol
coming out of a phone receiver it means
that your phone is ready to use Wi-Fi
calling it's a relatively new feature
that allows you to have a better quality
of calls for example if your phone can't
find good reception indoors you can make
calls with the help of any available
Wi-Fi network a square with some
mountains inside informs you about a
successfully made screen shot in most
smart phones to make a screen shot you
need to hold the home button and the
power button at the same time as soon as
you hear a camera's shutter noise the
screen shot is taken but then what's
this icon that has the symbol of a
screen shot with an exclamation mark on
it
this sign warns you that your phone
hasn't been able to save the image the
reasons may be different for example
your device may not have enough memory
or the application itself doesn't allow
you to take a screen shot just as it may
happen with some banking apps a small
arrow at the top of the screen on Apple
phones means that you're using location
services most often you'll see this
arrow when you have an app with maps
open on your device if you notice it too
often to your liking open settings
privacy location services there you'll
see which apps have recently used your
location if you don't want some of them
to know where you are at the moment
simply switch off their access to the
location services oh and by the way all
these icons may look slightly different
depending on your device and its
manufacturer but in general they're
supposed to look similar to the ones
I've told you about a if you learn
something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life